README.md, before:

# docker-ingress-routing-daemon
Docker swarm daemon that modifies ingress mesh routing to expose true client IPs to service containers

Docker Swarm's out-of-the-box ingress mesh routing logic uses IPVS and SNAT to route incoming traffic to service containers. By using SNAT to set the source IP of each incoming connection to the ingress network IP of the node, service containers receiving traffic from multiple nodes can route the reverse path traffic back to the correct node, which is necessary for the SNAT to be reversed and the reverse path traffic returned to the correct client IP.

An unfortunate side-effect of this approach is that to service containers, all incoming traffic appears to arrive from the same set of ingress network node IPs, and service containers cannot geolocate clients.

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon works around this limitation, by inhibiting SNAT and instead using a combination of firewall and policy routing rules to route reverse path traffic back to the correct node.

The way it works is as follows.

For load-balancing nodes:

1. Inhibit Docker Swarm's SNAT rule (for all traffic, or for specified TCP and UDP traffic, depending on command line arguments)
2. Add a firewall rule that sets the TOS byte within outgoing IP packets, destined for a service container in the ingress network, to the node's `NODE_ID`. The `NODE_ID` is determined by the final byte of the node's IP within the ingress network.

For service container nodes:

1. Monitor for newly-launched service containers, and when a new container is seen, if the ingress network is found, add firewall and routing rules within the container's namespace that implement the following.
2. Map the TOS value on any incoming packets to a connection mark, using the same value.
3. Map any connection mark on reverse path traffic to a firewall mark on the individual packets
4. Create a custom routing table for each load-balancing node/TOS value/connection mark value/firewall mark value.
5. Select which custom routing table to use, according to the firewall mark on the outgoing packet.

The daemon must be run on both load-balancer nodes and nodes running service containers, but the ingress network IPs of all nodes intended to be used as load-balancers must be specified using `--ingress-gateway-ips` as a launch-time argument.

N.B. Following production testing, for performance reasons the daemon also performs the following configuration within the ingress network namespace:

1. Sets `net.ipv4.vs.conn_reuse_mode=0`, `net.ipv4.vs.expire_nodest_conn=1` and `net.ipv4.vs.expire_quiescent_template=1`
2. Sets any further (or different) sysctl settings as specified on the node filesystem in `/etc/sysctl.d/conntrack.conf` and in `/etc/sysctl.d/ipvs.conf`
3. Disables connection tracking within the ingress network namespace.

**(If you do not want these changes made on your hosts, run the daemon with the `--no-performance` option).**

## Usage

### Setting up

Generate a list of the ingress network IPs of the nodes you intend to use as load balancers in your swarm.  You do this by running `docker-ingress-routing-daemon` as root on every one of your swarm's nodes **_that you'd like to use as a load-balancer endpoint_**, noting the ingress network IP shown. You only have to do this once, or whenever you add or remove nodes. Your ingress network IPs should look something like `10.0.0.2 10.0.0.3 10.0.0.4 10.0.0.5` (according to the subnet defined for the ingress network, and the number of nodes; IPs will not necessarily be sequential).  

### Running the daemon

Run `docker-ingress-routing-daemon --ingress-gateway-ips <Node Ingress IP List> --install` as root on **_each and every one_** of your load-balancer and/or service container nodes **_before_** creating your service. (If your service is already created, then ensure you scale it to 0 before scaling it back to a positive number of replicas.) The daemon will initialise iptables, detect when docker creates new containers, and apply new routing rules to each new container.  

If you need to restrict the daemon’s installation of routing and firewall rules within launched containers to containers for specific services, then add `--services <Service List>`.

If you do not use `--services` then all service containers with an ingress network interface will be configured by the daemon.

If you need to restrict the daemons activities to the specific TCP or UDP ports published by the above services, then add `--tcp-ports <ports>` or `--udp-ports <ports>`, or both. If you do not use these options then all IPVS traffic routed by the node will be routed to service containers instead of masqueraded.

For detailed daemon usage, run:

```
# ./docker-ingress-routing-daemon
Usage: ./docker-ingress-routing-daemon [--install [OPTIONS] | --uninstall | --help]

           --services <services>  - service names to disable masquerading for
             --tcp-ports <ports>  - TCP ports to disable masquerading for
             --udp-ports <ports>  - UDP ports to disable masquerading for
     --ingress-gateway-ips <ips>  - specify load-balance ingress IPs
                --no-performance  - disable performance optimisations

    (services, ports and IPs may be comma or space-separated or may be specified
     multiple times)
```

### Uninstalling iptables rules

Run `docker-ingress-routing-daemon --uninstall` on each node.

## Testing

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon can be tested on a single-node or multi-node docker swarm.

## Production testing

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon is used in production on the website https://www.newsnow.co.uk/, currently handling in excess of 1,000 requests per second.

We run the daemon on all 10 nodes of our swarm, of which currently only two serve as load balancers for incoming web traffic. The two load-balancer nodes direct traffic to service containers running on the remaining nodes.

Using the daemon, we have been able to avoid significant changes to our tech stack, which used to run native IPVS load-balancing, or to our application's internals (which relied upon identifying the requesting client's IP address for geolocation and security purposes).

## Limitations

As the TOS value can store an 8-bit number, this model can in principle support up to 256 load-balancer endpoint nodes.

However as the model requires every container be installed with one iptables mangle rule + one policy routing rule + one policy routing table per manager endpoint node, there might possibly be some performance degradation as the number of such endpoint nodes increases (although experience suggests this is unlikely to be noticeable with <= 16 load-balancer endpoint nodes on modern hardware).

If you add load-balancer nodes to your swarm - or want to start using existing nodes as load-balancer nodes - you will need to tread carefully as existing containers will not be able to route traffic back to the new endpoint nodes. Try restarting `INGRESS_NODE_GATEWAY_IPS="<Node Ingress IP List>" docker-ingress-routing-daemon` with the updated value for `INGRESS_NODE_GATEWAY_IPS` across the cluster first, then perform a rolling update of all containers, before using the new load-balancer node.

## Scope for native Docker integration

I’m not familiar with the Docker codebase, but I can’t see anything that `docker-ingress-routing-daemon-v2` does that couldn’t, in principle, be implemented by Docker natively, but I'll leave that for the Docker team to consider, or as an exercise for someone familiar with the Docker code.

Commit message:

Enable 'loose' reverse-path filter mode on the container ingress network (and bump to v3.1.0)

README.md, after:

# docker-ingress-routing-daemon
Docker swarm daemon that modifies ingress mesh routing to expose true client IPs to service containers

Docker Swarm's out-of-the-box ingress mesh routing logic uses IPVS and SNAT to route incoming traffic to service containers. By using SNAT to set the source IP of each incoming connection to the ingress network IP of the node, service containers receiving traffic from multiple nodes can route the reverse path traffic back to the correct node, which is necessary for the SNAT to be reversed and the reverse path traffic returned to the correct client IP.

An unfortunate side-effect of this approach is that to service containers, all incoming traffic appears to arrive from the same set of ingress network node IPs, and service containers cannot geolocate clients.

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon works around this limitation, by inhibiting SNAT and instead using a combination of firewall and policy routing rules to route reverse path traffic back to the correct node.

The way it works is as follows.

For load-balancing nodes:

1. Inhibit Docker Swarm's SNAT rule (for all traffic, or for specified TCP and UDP traffic, depending on command line arguments)
2. Add a firewall rule that sets the TOS byte within outgoing IP packets, destined for a service container in the ingress network, to the node's `NODE_ID`. The `NODE_ID` is determined by the final byte of the node's IP within the ingress network.

For service container nodes:

1. Monitor for newly-launched service containers, and when a new container is seen, if the ingress network is found, add firewall and routing rules within the container's namespace that implement the following.
2. Map the TOS value on any incoming packets to a connection mark, using the same value.
3. Map any connection mark on reverse path traffic to a firewall mark on the individual packets
4. Create a custom routing table for each load-balancing node/TOS value/connection mark value/firewall mark value.
5. Select which custom routing table to use, according to the firewall mark on the outgoing packet.
6. Enable 'loose' reverse-path filter mode on the container ingress network interface.

The daemon must be run on both load-balancer nodes and nodes running service containers, but the ingress network IPs of all nodes intended to be used as load-balancers must be specified using `--ingress-gateway-ips` as a launch-time argument.

N.B. Following production testing, for performance reasons the daemon also performs the following configuration within the ingress network namespace:

1. Sets `net.ipv4.vs.conn_reuse_mode=0`, `net.ipv4.vs.expire_nodest_conn=1` and `net.ipv4.vs.expire_quiescent_template=1`
2. Sets any further (or different) sysctl settings as specified on the node filesystem in `/etc/sysctl.d/conntrack.conf` and in `/etc/sysctl.d/ipvs.conf`
3. Disables connection tracking within the ingress network namespace.

**(If you do not want these changes made on your hosts, run the daemon with the `--no-performance` option).**

## Usage

### Setting up

Generate a list of the ingress network IPs of the nodes you intend to use as load balancers in your swarm.  You do this by running `docker-ingress-routing-daemon` as root on every one of your swarm's nodes **_that you'd like to use as a load-balancer endpoint_**, noting the ingress network IP shown. You only have to do this once, or whenever you add or remove nodes. Your ingress network IPs should look something like `10.0.0.2 10.0.0.3 10.0.0.4 10.0.0.5` (according to the subnet defined for the ingress network, and the number of nodes; IPs will not necessarily be sequential).  

### Running the daemon

Run `docker-ingress-routing-daemon --ingress-gateway-ips <Node Ingress IP List> --install` as root on **_each and every one_** of your load-balancer and/or service container nodes **_before_** creating your service. (If your service is already created, then ensure you scale it to 0 before scaling it back to a positive number of replicas.) The daemon will initialise iptables, detect when docker creates new containers, and apply new routing rules to each new container.  

If you need to restrict the daemon’s installation of routing and firewall rules within launched containers to containers for specific services, then add `--services <Service List>`.

If you do not use `--services` then all service containers with an ingress network interface will be configured by the daemon.

If you need to restrict the daemons activities to the specific TCP or UDP ports published by the above services, then add `--tcp-ports <ports>` or `--udp-ports <ports>`, or both. If you do not use these options then all IPVS traffic routed by the node will be routed to service containers instead of masqueraded.

For detailed daemon usage, run:

```
# ./docker-ingress-routing-daemon
Usage: ./docker-ingress-routing-daemon [--install [OPTIONS] | --uninstall | --help]

           --services <services>  - service names to disable masquerading for
             --tcp-ports <ports>  - TCP ports to disable masquerading for
             --udp-ports <ports>  - UDP ports to disable masquerading for
     --ingress-gateway-ips <ips>  - specify load-balance ingress IPs
                --no-performance  - disable performance optimisations

    (services, ports and IPs may be comma or space-separated or may be specified
     multiple times)
```

### Uninstalling iptables rules

Run `docker-ingress-routing-daemon --uninstall` on each node.

## Testing

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon can be tested on a single-node or multi-node docker swarm.

## Production testing

The docker-ingress-routing-daemon is used in production on the website https://www.newsnow.co.uk/, currently handling in excess of 1,000 requests per second.

We run the daemon on all 10 nodes of our swarm, of which currently only two serve as load balancers for incoming web traffic. The two load-balancer nodes direct traffic to service containers running on the remaining nodes.

Using the daemon, we have been able to avoid significant changes to our tech stack, which used to run native IPVS load-balancing, or to our application's internals (which relied upon identifying the requesting client's IP address for geolocation and security purposes).

## Limitations

As the TOS value can store an 8-bit number, this model can in principle support up to 256 load-balancer endpoint nodes.

However as the model requires every container be installed with one iptables mangle rule + one policy routing rule + one policy routing table per manager endpoint node, there might possibly be some performance degradation as the number of such endpoint nodes increases (although experience suggests this is unlikely to be noticeable with <= 16 load-balancer endpoint nodes on modern hardware).

If you add load-balancer nodes to your swarm - or want to start using existing nodes as load-balancer nodes - you will need to tread carefully as existing containers will not be able to route traffic back to the new endpoint nodes. Try restarting `INGRESS_NODE_GATEWAY_IPS="<Node Ingress IP List>" docker-ingress-routing-daemon` with the updated value for `INGRESS_NODE_GATEWAY_IPS` across the cluster first, then perform a rolling update of all containers, before using the new load-balancer node.

## Scope for native Docker integration

I’m not familiar with the Docker codebase, but I can’t see anything that `docker-ingress-routing-daemon-v2` does that couldn’t, in principle, be implemented by Docker natively, but I'll leave that for the Docker team to consider, or as an exercise for someone familiar with the Docker code.
